---
layout: post
title: Core Questions in Project Planning
date: 2017-11-13
---
In "Digital Storytelling in Museums," authors Bruce Wyman, Scott Smith, Daniel Meyers, and Michael Godfrey of Second Story reflect on the function of museums in a digital age. Sharon M. Leon considers similar questions, though in the broader scope of public history, in her essay "Complexity and Collaboration: Doing Public History in Digital Environments." 

Wyman et al. and Leon discuss the importance of matching web genres, content platforms, and technologies to the project at hand. Leon writes that "not every public history venture on the Web will be best served by an extended treatment in an online exhibit. Some may be better suited to the brevity and tone of a blog post" and so on (47). In a similar vein, Wyman et al. advise readers to "think fundamentally about our goals rather than the technology" and to first ask "core questions" (465). Having recently submitted a proposal for my own digital history project, I appreciate these caveats and know they will help me focus the project's scope and intent. 

Fundamentally, my project is about the Indian troops who fought for Britain in World War I. However, these readings, coupled with my instructor's feedback, have made me realize that I originally proceeded from an idea of what method or technology I wanted to use (mapping, possibly with QGIS), rather than a "core question" within my topic. As my interest lies primarily in who these soldiers were, I might be best served by focusing on a single regiment of the Indian army and using the <a href="https://archive.org/details/digitallibraryindia">rich primary sources that have been digitized by the Public Library of India</a> to investigate that regiment further. A preliminary investigation of the quarterly Indian Army Lists revealed names and ranks, uniform colors, miscellaneous "remarks," and, in some cases, information on the "composition" of the companies, i.e. caste and ethnicity. Depending on the information I am able to glean from those sources, I can choose the method and platform of the project accordingly. I would still like to include a map of where the regiment was raised and where it was stationed, but perhaps as a visual/contextual reference instead of the main component of the project.
