---
layout: post
title: "Raw Data and Its Interpretation"
date: 2017-10-01
---
In our examination of the digitization efforts of DPLA and Google Books, we have seen the abundance of the information that is available on the web. With this understanding comes a series of important questions: How do we comb through these data? Does their abundance fundamentally change the way we do scholarship? How do we vet new information and subject it to scholarly critique?

In "Hermeneutics of Data and Historical Writing" and <i>Raw Data is an Oxymoron</i>, Frederick W. Gibbs, Trevor J. Owens, and Lisa Gitelman consider the relationship that historians have to data more generally. Gibbs and Owens take the view that an abundance of data brings with it the potential to analyze that data in new and creative ways. They advise historians to be more explicit about their data collection and analysis, in the hope that "exposed data" could allow for more original and collaborative interpretations of that data, "in the way that citations to textual sources do not." Gitelman is more interested in the nature of data itself, and she argues that fundamentally there is no such thing as raw data. I am inclined to agree with her on this point, as data are always subject to bias in their collection and interpretation.

Through their critiques of historical scholarship. Thomas L. Haskell and Eric Hilt provide examples of the bias and fallibility that can be inherent in data sets. While I believe that quantitative figures can be an asset to historical work if used responsibly, I, like Gitelman, do not believe that "raw" data can speak for themselves or substitute critical analysis. In his review of <i>Time on the Cross</i>, Haskell points not only to the inaccuracies in Fogel and Engerman's data, but also to more fundamental issues with their process; he writes that "at [the Rochester conference about the book] serious methodological questions were crowded offstage by such prosaic queries as 'Have Fogel and Enerman gotten their facts straight?' and '<b>Can this formula even in principle answer the questions they ask of it?</b>'" (Haskell 5, emphasis mine) These are important questions that ought to be asked of historians, regardless of their methods. Such issues are particularly topical right now given the sheer amount of data accessible to researchers online and the popularization of cliometrics (Haskell 2).

Neither Haskell nor Hilt takes issue with the field of cliometrics itself. Rather, they offer critiques of those who use the principles of cliometrics irresponsibly or consider it a substitute for other kinds of analytical thinking. Hilt explains that some proponents of cliometrics turned away from an interdisciplinary approach to history, and that the emergence of the field caused an influx of scholarship written by economists rather than historians (Hilt 2). In the cases of <i>Time on the Cross</i> and the various works that Hilt critiques, these scholars' tendency to divorce economics from historical context shows. I don't believe that such a thing can be done cleanly or responsibly, as economics are intertwined with the historical, the political, the social, and the cultural.

Hilt is not wholly critical of numerical methods, however, and describes the new and exciting sources that cliometrists can employ: "Census microdata, coupled with technological advances such as those related to geospatial information systems (GIS), have led to rapid advances in the field" (Hilt 2). In regards to the question about whether these advances fundamentally change the way we should perform scholarship, I would argue that they can enhance our methods and render our scholarship more sophisticated if used wisely. As Gibbs and Owen point out, accessibility to data can spur new creative methods and interpretations; yet data are not self-explanatory or infallible, and we must not lose sight of academic standards or critical approaches to analysis as we attempt to utilize these new data in our work.
