---
layout: post
title: Sepoys on the Western Front
date: 2017-12-03
---
Over the course of the semester, we have had the opportunity to work on a variety of projects and to try out different technological platforms. For our final project, we had the freedom to choose the subject matter and technilogy we wished to work with. I decided to build upon a recent research interest of mine: Indian soldiers in World War I.

I knew that I wanted to incorporate a map into this project, but I was also interested in the kind of qualitative information that might allow us to learn about the soldiers' lives and stories. While I initially debated how best to connect these two types of information, I decided to take photographs and letters taken from the front and to plot these in the approximate locations where they originated. The combination of this spatial element with visual and textual accounts makes for an interesting and sometimes poignant representation of the lives and activities of the Indian soldiers.

I decided to use ArcGIS's Story Maps app to create this project, because I am in fact seeking to tell the soldiers' stories. The app has an option to include multiple sections in the project, which I have used to show some of the visual culture surrounding Indian soldiers in World War I. 

In the time before the final project is due, I intend to add more interpretive text and to perhaps find more examples of visual culture.

The full-sized Story Map is available <a href="https://arcg.is/1m55by">here</a>. A condensed version is embedded below (some image clipping occurs).

<iframe width="100%" height="800px" src="https://www.arcgis.com/apps/MapJournal/index.html?appid=07d85af6201f45e289a82eadae1d0572" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
